model_card.md, before:

# Model Card

For additional information see the Model Card paper: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1810.03993.pdf

## Model Details

- Person or organization developing model: Carlos Miranda, Udacity Student
- Model date: 2022/02/27
- Model version: 1
- Model type: scikit-learn RandomForestClassifier
- Information about training algorithms, parameters, fairness constraints or other applied approaches, and features: Basic K-Fold cross-validation with default parameters. The dataset contains personal information such as workclass, education, marital status, race, sex, which can be freely exploited by the model.
- License: MIT
- Where to send questions or comments about the model: GitHub issues

## Intended Use

Educational purposes.

## Training Data

Training data can be found in data/census_clean.csv.

## Evaluation Data

Testing data can be found in data/census_clean.csv.

## Metrics
Metrics include precision, recall and fbeta. The scores given here are averaged across 5 folds:

| Fold  	| fbeta               	| precision         	| recall              	|
|-------	|---------------------	|-------------------	|---------------------	|
| train 	| 0.99995 (± 4e-05)   	| 0.99994 (± 8e-05) 	| 0.99997 (± 6e-05)   	|
| test  	| 0.67346 (± 0.01006) 	| 0.7325 (± 0.0166) 	| 0.62347 (± 0.01177) 	|

### Slice metrics: Race

| Value              	| Precision 	| Recall  	| FBeta   	|
|--------------------	|-----------	|---------	|---------	|
| White              	| 0.95447   	| 0.92497 	| 0.93949 	|
| Black              	| 0.95503   	| 0.93282 	| 0.94379 	|
| Asian-Pac-Islander 	| 0.95038   	| 0.90217 	| 0.92565 	|
| Amer-Indian-Eskimo 	| 0.91429   	| 0.88889 	| 0.90141 	|
| Other              	| 1.00000   	| 0.88000 	| 0.93617 	|

### Slice metrics: Sex

| Value  	| Precision 	| Recall  	| FBeta   	|
|--------	|-----------	|---------	|---------	|
| Male   	| 0.95474   	| 0.92765 	| 0.94100 	|
| Female 	| 0.95183   	| 0.90500 	| 0.92783 	|

### Slice metrics: Education

| Value        	| Precision 	| Recall  	| FBeta   	|
|--------------	|-----------	|---------	|---------	|
| Bachelors    	| 0.95266   	| 0.95137 	| 0.95202 	|
| HS-grad      	| 0.95405   	| 0.88000 	| 0.91553 	|
| 11th         	| 1.00000   	| 0.90000 	| 0.94737 	|
| Masters      	| 0.97167   	| 0.96559 	| 0.96862 	|
| 9th          	| 1.00000   	| 0.77778 	| 0.87500 	|
| Some-college 	| 0.94364   	| 0.89329 	| 0.91778 	|
| Assoc-acdm   	| 0.92366   	| 0.91321 	| 0.91841 	|
| Assoc-voc    	| 0.94220   	| 0.90305 	| 0.92221 	|
| 7th-8th      	| 1.00000   	| 0.87500 	| 0.93333 	|
| Doctorate    	| 0.96393   	| 0.96078 	| 0.96236 	|
| Prof-school  	| 0.96984   	| 0.98818 	| 0.97892 	|
| 5th-6th      	| 1.00000   	| 0.75000 	| 0.85714 	|
| 10th         	| 0.91045   	| 0.98387 	| 0.94574 	|
| 1st-4th      	| 1.00000   	| 0.83333 	| 0.90909 	|
| Preschool    	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| 12th         	| 1.00000   	| 0.81818 	| 0.90000 	|

### Slice metrics: Native country

| Value                      	| Precision 	| Recall  	| FBeta   	|
|----------------------------	|-----------	|---------	|---------	|
| United-States              	| 0.95409   	| 0.92456 	| 0.93909 	|
| Cuba                       	| 0.96000   	| 0.96000 	| 0.96000 	|
| Jamaica                    	| 0.90909   	| 1.00000 	| 0.95238 	|
| India                      	| 0.94444   	| 0.85000 	| 0.89474 	|
| ?                          	| 0.97857   	| 0.93836 	| 0.95804 	|
| Mexico                     	| 1.00000   	| 0.84848 	| 0.91803 	|
| South                      	| 0.88889   	| 1.00000 	| 0.94118 	|
| Puerto-Rico                	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Honduras                   	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| England                    	| 0.93548   	| 0.96667 	| 0.95082 	|
| Canada                     	| 1.00000   	| 0.97436 	| 0.98701 	|
| Germany                    	| 0.93182   	| 0.93182 	| 0.93182 	|
| Iran                       	| 0.94444   	| 0.94444 	| 0.94444 	|
| Philippines                	| 0.96364   	| 0.86885 	| 0.91379 	|
| Italy                      	| 0.95833   	| 0.92000 	| 0.93878 	|
| Poland                     	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Columbia                   	| 0.66667   	| 1.00000 	| 0.80000 	|
| Cambodia                   	| 1.00000   	| 0.57143 	| 0.72727 	|
| Thailand                   	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Ecuador                    	| 1.00000   	| 0.50000 	| 0.66667 	|
| Laos                       	| 0.50000   	| 0.50000 	| 0.50000 	|
| Taiwan                     	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Haiti                      	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Portugal                   	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Dominican-Republic         	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| El-Salvador                	| 1.00000   	| 0.88889 	| 0.94118 	|
| France                     	| 0.91667   	| 0.91667 	| 0.91667 	|
| Guatemala                  	| 1.00000   	| 0.33333 	| 0.50000 	|
| China                      	| 0.95000   	| 0.95000 	| 0.95000 	|
| Japan                      	| 0.95833   	| 0.95833 	| 0.95833 	|
| Yugoslavia                 	| 0.85714   	| 1.00000 	| 0.92308 	|
| Peru                       	| 0.66667   	| 1.00000 	| 0.80000 	|
| Outlying-US(Guam-USVI-etc) 	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Scotland                   	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Trinadad&Tobago            	| 0.50000   	| 0.50000 	| 0.50000 	|
| Greece                     	| 1.00000   	| 0.87500 	| 0.93333 	|
| Nicaragua                  	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Vietnam                    	| 1.00000   	| 0.60000 	| 0.75000 	|
| Hong                       	| 0.85714   	| 1.00000 	| 0.92308 	|
| Ireland                    	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Hungary                    	| 0.75000   	| 1.00000 	| 0.85714 	|
| Holand-Netherlands         	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|

## Ethical Considerations

This model should not be used in any serious scenario.

## Caveats and Recommendations
One can see the model seems to overfit, thus it would be necessary to enhance the training procedure in order for the model to generalize better.

Commit message:

chores: Adds more details to model_card and updates live_get screenshot.

model_card.md, after:

# Model Card

For additional information see the Model Card paper: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1810.03993.pdf

## Model Details

- Person or organization developing model: Carlos Miranda, Udacity Student
- Model date: 2022/02/27
- Model version: 1
- Model type: scikit-learn RandomForestClassifier
- Information about training algorithms, parameters, fairness constraints or other applied approaches, and features: Basic K-Fold cross-validation with default parameters. The dataset contains personal information such as workclass, education, marital status, race, sex, which can be freely exploited by the model.
- License: MIT
- Where to send questions or comments about the model: GitHub issues

## Intended Use

The trained model is not expected to be used for other than educational purposes.

## Training Data

Training data can be found in data/census_clean.csv. It consists of 14 attributes and 1 target variable:
- Age
- Workclass
- FNLGT
- Education(-num)
- Marital status
- Occupation
- Relationship
- Race
- Sex
- Capital gain
- Capital loss
- Hours (worked) per week
- Salary (<50K or >=50K)

Data is not stratified during training.

See [this](https://www.kaggle.com/uciml/adult-census-income) for more info.

## Evaluation Data

Testing data can also be found in data/census_clean.csv. 5-fold cross-validation uses the whole dataset for train/validation.

## Metrics
Metrics include precision, recall and fbeta. The scores given here are averaged across 5 folds:

| Fold  	| fbeta               	| precision         	| recall              	|
|-------	|---------------------	|-------------------	|---------------------	|
| train 	| 0.99995 (± 4e-05)   	| 0.99994 (± 8e-05) 	| 0.99997 (± 6e-05)   	|
| test  	| 0.67346 (± 0.01006) 	| 0.7325 (± 0.0166) 	| 0.62347 (± 0.01177) 	|
One can see there is overfitting. Some relevant _slice_ metrics can be found below, so as to assess where the model may overfit.

### Slice metrics: Race

| Value              	| Precision 	| Recall  	| FBeta   	|
|--------------------	|-----------	|---------	|---------	|
| White              	| 0.95447   	| 0.92497 	| 0.93949 	|
| Black              	| 0.95503   	| 0.93282 	| 0.94379 	|
| Asian-Pac-Islander 	| 0.95038   	| 0.90217 	| 0.92565 	|
| Amer-Indian-Eskimo 	| 0.91429   	| 0.88889 	| 0.90141 	|
| Other              	| 1.00000   	| 0.88000 	| 0.93617 	|

### Slice metrics: Sex

| Value  	| Precision 	| Recall  	| FBeta   	|
|--------	|-----------	|---------	|---------	|
| Male   	| 0.95474   	| 0.92765 	| 0.94100 	|
| Female 	| 0.95183   	| 0.90500 	| 0.92783 	|

### Slice metrics: Education

| Value        	| Precision 	| Recall  	| FBeta   	|
|--------------	|-----------	|---------	|---------	|
| Bachelors    	| 0.95266   	| 0.95137 	| 0.95202 	|
| HS-grad      	| 0.95405   	| 0.88000 	| 0.91553 	|
| 11th         	| 1.00000   	| 0.90000 	| 0.94737 	|
| Masters      	| 0.97167   	| 0.96559 	| 0.96862 	|
| 9th          	| 1.00000   	| 0.77778 	| 0.87500 	|
| Some-college 	| 0.94364   	| 0.89329 	| 0.91778 	|
| Assoc-acdm   	| 0.92366   	| 0.91321 	| 0.91841 	|
| Assoc-voc    	| 0.94220   	| 0.90305 	| 0.92221 	|
| 7th-8th      	| 1.00000   	| 0.87500 	| 0.93333 	|
| Doctorate    	| 0.96393   	| 0.96078 	| 0.96236 	|
| Prof-school  	| 0.96984   	| 0.98818 	| 0.97892 	|
| 5th-6th      	| 1.00000   	| 0.75000 	| 0.85714 	|
| 10th         	| 0.91045   	| 0.98387 	| 0.94574 	|
| 1st-4th      	| 1.00000   	| 0.83333 	| 0.90909 	|
| Preschool    	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| 12th         	| 1.00000   	| 0.81818 	| 0.90000 	|

### Slice metrics: Native country

| Value                      	| Precision 	| Recall  	| FBeta   	|
|----------------------------	|-----------	|---------	|---------	|
| United-States              	| 0.95409   	| 0.92456 	| 0.93909 	|
| Cuba                       	| 0.96000   	| 0.96000 	| 0.96000 	|
| Jamaica                    	| 0.90909   	| 1.00000 	| 0.95238 	|
| India                      	| 0.94444   	| 0.85000 	| 0.89474 	|
| ?                          	| 0.97857   	| 0.93836 	| 0.95804 	|
| Mexico                     	| 1.00000   	| 0.84848 	| 0.91803 	|
| South                      	| 0.88889   	| 1.00000 	| 0.94118 	|
| Puerto-Rico                	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Honduras                   	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| England                    	| 0.93548   	| 0.96667 	| 0.95082 	|
| Canada                     	| 1.00000   	| 0.97436 	| 0.98701 	|
| Germany                    	| 0.93182   	| 0.93182 	| 0.93182 	|
| Iran                       	| 0.94444   	| 0.94444 	| 0.94444 	|
| Philippines                	| 0.96364   	| 0.86885 	| 0.91379 	|
| Italy                      	| 0.95833   	| 0.92000 	| 0.93878 	|
| Poland                     	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Columbia                   	| 0.66667   	| 1.00000 	| 0.80000 	|
| Cambodia                   	| 1.00000   	| 0.57143 	| 0.72727 	|
| Thailand                   	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Ecuador                    	| 1.00000   	| 0.50000 	| 0.66667 	|
| Laos                       	| 0.50000   	| 0.50000 	| 0.50000 	|
| Taiwan                     	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Haiti                      	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Portugal                   	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Dominican-Republic         	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| El-Salvador                	| 1.00000   	| 0.88889 	| 0.94118 	|
| France                     	| 0.91667   	| 0.91667 	| 0.91667 	|
| Guatemala                  	| 1.00000   	| 0.33333 	| 0.50000 	|
| China                      	| 0.95000   	| 0.95000 	| 0.95000 	|
| Japan                      	| 0.95833   	| 0.95833 	| 0.95833 	|
| Yugoslavia                 	| 0.85714   	| 1.00000 	| 0.92308 	|
| Peru                       	| 0.66667   	| 1.00000 	| 0.80000 	|
| Outlying-US(Guam-USVI-etc) 	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Scotland                   	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Trinadad&Tobago            	| 0.50000   	| 0.50000 	| 0.50000 	|
| Greece                     	| 1.00000   	| 0.87500 	| 0.93333 	|
| Nicaragua                  	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Vietnam                    	| 1.00000   	| 0.60000 	| 0.75000 	|
| Hong                       	| 0.85714   	| 1.00000 	| 0.92308 	|
| Ireland                    	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|
| Hungary                    	| 0.75000   	| 1.00000 	| 0.85714 	|
| Holand-Netherlands         	| 1.00000   	| 1.00000 	| 1.00000 	|

## Ethical Considerations

We can see there is no slice where the model actually favours one of the analyzed traits over another. It would seem the model has just overfitted, more than integrated a trait-based bias.
In any case, this model should not be used for any serious analysis, as it would most certainly provided wrong results and allow incorrect conclusions.

## Caveats and Recommendations
One can see this model overfitted, thus it would be necessary to enhance the training procedure in order for the model to generalize better (e.g. hyperparameter tuning).
